# Hypermedia Applications: Backend

## General group informations

| Member n.     | Role           | First name | Last Name | Matricola | Email Address |
| ------------- | -------------  | ---------- | --------- | --------- | ------------- |
| 1             | Administrator | Davide     | Avanzi    | 913038    | davide1.avanzi@mail.polimi.it |
| 2     | Member  | Fabrizio | Carsenzuola | ... | fabrizio.carsenzuola@mail.polimi.it |
| 2     | Member  | Francesca | Bernecich | ... | francesca.bernecich@mail.polimi.it |


## Links to other deliverables

- Deliverable D0: the web application is accessible at
  [this address](https://hyp.avanzi.dev).
- Deliverable D2: the YAML or JSON file containing the specification of the app
  API can be found at [this address](https://example.com/backend/spec.yaml).
- Deliverable D3: the SwaggerUI page of the same API is available at
  [this address](https://hyp.avanzi.dev/docs/).
- Deliverable D4: the source code of D0 is available as a zip file at
  [this address](https://example.com/backend/app.zip).
- Deliverable D5: the address of the online source control repository is
  available [this address](https://github.com/davideavanzi/bookstore). We hereby declare that this
  is a private repository and, upon request, we will give access to the
  instructors.
## Specifications
### Web Architecture
*Describe here, with a diagram, the components of your web application and how
they interact. Highlight which parts belong to the application layer, data layer
or presentation layer. How did you ensure that HTML is not rendered server side?*

The web architecture of our application consist in a typical three-layer MVC setup hereby described:
- The **data layer** is a PostgreSQL database, accessed by the application layer by the mean of the query builder Knex.js. Database setup is carried out by applying knex.js migrations and seeds at the application start. 
- The **application layer** consists of a nodeJS server handling out API requests and interacting with the data layer. In our deployment the nodeJS server runs behind an Nginx reverse proxy hosted on a Ubuntu server, thus providing HTTPS connection.
- The **presentation layer** is an HTML website performing API AJAX calls to the server using JQuery and JavaScript.
### API
#### REST compliance
*Describe here to what extent did you follow REST principles and what are the
reasons for which you might have decided to diverge. Note, you must not describe
the whole API here, just the design decisions.*

We designed a RESTful API following it's principles at our best, with two exceptions:
- **Uniform Interface**: we defined all the needed resources thorugh proper URLs, trying to separate logical entities as much as possible and giving them a specific path in the interface. 
- **Client–server**: we mantained a complete separation between client and server, they can be altered and developed separately as long as the API interface is not modified.
- **Stateless**: the application is completely stateless and all the informations about the state are kept on the client. Each request is processed as new and a cookie is verified in order to authorize some requests. We decided to also make a little exception to this rule, storing an authorization token on the server side as a good practice to prevent cookie tampering attacks. This feature is optional and not necessary for the basic operation of the API interface.
- **Layered system**: The three layers are completely separated and can work indepentently, just by changing the connection parameters and urls.
- **Cacheable**: Since the data obtained by this API may vary in short amount of times (E.G. stock amount of books, new events and reviews) we decided not to make requests cacheable. Although in a real-world application some of the requests may be cached.

#### OpenAPI Resource models
*Describe here synthetically, which models you have introduced for resources.*
### Data model
Describe with an ER diagram the model used in the data layer of your web
application. How these map to the OpenAPI data model?
## Implementation
### Tools used
*Describe here which tools, languages and frameworks did you use for the backend
of the application.*

Tools used to develop the backend:
- **Editors/IDE**: Sublime Text, Visual Studio Code, Swagger Editor
- **Languages**: JavaScript, SQL (on a knex raw query)
- **Frameworks**: NodeJS, Knex.jS 

### Discussion
*Describe here:*
- *How did you make sure your web application adheres to the provided OpenAPI
  specification?*

  The server checks validates any request by comparing it to it's OpenAPI specification via the swagger middleware. All server JSON replies are compliant to the entities specified in the yaml representation.
- *Why do you think your web application adheres to common practices to partition
  the web application (static assets vs. application data)?*

- *Describe synthetically why and how did you manage session state, what are the
  state change triggering actions (e.g., POST to login etc..).*

- *Which technology did you use (relational or a no-SQL database) for managing
  the data model?*

  The data model is managed by a PostgreSQL relational database.
  
## Other information

### Task assignment
*Describe here how development tasks have been subdivided among members of the
group*

Here is a table reporting how much time each group member spent on the different tasks. 

| Member | Backend | Frontend | OpenAPI Spec | Documents |
| ------ |:-------:|:--------:|:------------:|:---------:|
| Davide | 60%     | 20 %     | 10 %         | 10%       | 
| Fabrizio | % | % | % | % |
| Francesca | % | % | % | % |


### Analysis of existing API

Describe here if you have found relevant APIs that have inspired the OpenAPI
specification and why (at least two).

### Learning outcome
What was the most important thing all the members have learned while developing this part of the project, what questions remained unanswered, how you will use what you've learned in your everyday life?
Examples:
- Foo learned to write SQL queries and Javascript but wanted to know more about caching, he's probably going to create his own startup with what she has learned
- Bar learned how to deploy on a cloud platform, he would have liked to know
  more about promises for asynchronous code..
